PostgreSQL Magazine: Please tell us a little about yourself...Bruce Momjian: I am of Armenian ancestry and have lived in the Philadelphia area all my life.  I went from majoring in history in college to teaching computer science in high school to developing database applications for law firms.  That's kind of an odd mix, and working on open source full-time is an even odder occupation.  But it is a very rewarding one, and I thoroughly enjoy it.PGM: When did you hear of PostgreSQL for the first time and why did you choose to contribute to the project?BM: As a database applications developer, I used Ingres and Informix at work and wanted a database for my Unix machine at home.  All the commercial database systems were too expensive, and I wanted to know how the database worked inside.  Postgres was the ideal database because it was like commercial database systems,  but I could see the code. PGM:  PostgreSQL has changed a lot since then! How do you see the success of Postgres over the years? Is it something that surprised you or did you expect it from the beginning?BM: I really had no idea it would succeed.  Postgres was just an interesting project and I was learning a lot by working with some very smart people (smarter than me). I never expected it to go anywhere because, at the time, there were few examples of open source software succeeding in the way Postgres has.In the early years it was a struggle to justify the many hours I poured into Postgres while working at a job where I was paid as an hourly consultant — every hour spent on Postgres was an hour I wasn't paid, but it seemed like a good idea at the time, so I did it. I thought the skills I was learning might be useful someday.PGM: PostgreSQL is now one of the oldest open source projects still actively developed. What is the secret of this longevity?BM : Wow, it does surprise me how Postgres has taken off.  I think one secret is how a small group of people whose heart is invested in producing top-quality software can motivate and influence many volunteers scattered around the world.  There are many reasons why our community should not be as healthy as it is, but it is healthy, growing, and productive.  Humility, utilizing people's strengths, helping volunteers feel their contributions are appreciated — these are all secrets to our success.PGM:  What is your current job?BM:  I tend to do stuff no one wants to do.  I used to apply a lot of patches, but now that is handled.  I am constantly looking for things that need doing, and doing them, if only imperfectly.  Practically, I create patches, track down bugs, improve documentation, write presentations, and speak at conferences. PGM:  How many hours do you work a day?BM:  Sometimes twelve hours, sometimes six.  It all depends on what is happening, and, of course, if I am at a conference I am busy all the time.If I work all day I try to put down my laptop around 9 or 10pm and do some leisure activity, but recently I have been traveling so much I am too backed up on email to do that.  Many days I do some activity with my family, and because I work from home, that is easy to do, and it breaks up the day.This job is a good fit for me because what the community (and my employer EnterpriseDB) need me to do is pretty much what I enjoy doing. Plus I like doing things that are useful (even if they are boring), so that works well for me. And what is work, really?  Sometimes I spend all morning on instant message with community members, going over open items, bugs, and tasks.  Is that work?  I think so, but it is also fun and interesting — so is improving documentation or cleaning up code.  Is doing this interview work?  I guess it is, but it is also interesting.PGM:  What is your current participation on the development group of PostgreSQL?BM: I am a Postgres core member and primary maintainer of the pg_upgrade utility, which has become popular recently.  I also know most of the Postgres people personally so I often act as a community liaison.PGM:  According to you, what's the biggest features in the forthcoming PostgreSQL 9.1 version?BM: Here is my short list:  * Unlogged tables to better handle some NoSQL workloads  * Synchronous replication for greater reliability  * SQL/MED (Management of External Data) (flat files, other databases)  * Per-column collation support  * Security label, including SE-Linux integration  * True serializable isolation with predicate locking (already had snapshot isolation)  * Non-SELECT statement recursive queries  * Nearest-Neighbor (order-by-operator) Indexes  * Extensions (plugin) commands  * PL/Python overhaul (PL/Perl was done in 9.0) PGM:  PostgreSQL is often mentioned as being "the most advanced open source database". Do you think that in the near future it could overcome proprietary RDBMS and become the most advanced database of the whole market?BM: Yes, I think Postgres is clearly on track for that.  One of the things I recognized early on is that it doesn't matter how you currently rate against competitors, but rather how quickly you are improving.  If you are improving faster than everyone else, you will eventually overtake them, even if it takes decades. Postgres is clearly increasing its user base and adding advanced features faster than any of the proprietary databases, so eventually Postgres will be the most advanced database, period. We already excel in several areas.PGM:   What do you think of the NoSQL movement? Is it a threat for Postgres?I think the best ideas from NoSQL will be incorporated into existing database systems over time, and NoSQL databases will lose some of their attraction.  We saw that with object databases and XML databases in the past, and I think we are already seeing some of that happening with NoSQL. PGM:   Is there anything you haven't done yet but would like to see happening in the Postgres community?BM: We had a lot of missing stuff early on, and we just kept chipping away  at those.  At this point, there isn't much left that is missing.  I think we are going to see more advanced stuff being done with Postgres in the coming years, rather than just adding missing features.  The good news is that we are even better at designing and implementing advanced, cutting-edge stuff than we are with adding missing features. You can see some of that in 9.1, and we already have some cool stuff lined up for 9.2, such as native JSON support.PGM:   What other things are you interested in outside of open source and PostgreSQL?BM: I like to read, travel, and I enjoy doing things with my family. 